Did you ever have a ride with somebody who was driving too fast or drinking a little too much?
No, I guess not.
The most fun I read was being picked up somewhere
probably from Navasota to Conroe, I suspect, is where it was.
And it was a black gentleman in a really old car.
Rattletrap, I guess we called him in the old days.
And we were driving probably 40 miles an hour most of the way.
So it probably took an hour to get to Conroe from Navasota.
But this fellow, whoever he was, was one of those friendly sorts that always had a smile on his face, and he's laughing the whole time, and the windows are down, of course.
And every little bitty settlement we went through from Navasota to Conroe, he knew the people out on the road, waving at him, hollering, ah, honey, hi, sugar.
I'll see you out there in a little while.
And that was really a great experience.
I didn't know people could enjoy life quite that much.
at that time.
Let's see, and you had some Langford reminiscences.
Well, my best story about Mr. Langford, whom I love greatly and respect and admire,
was that Mr. Langford, somewhere, when he was the archivist for the university and I was department head, he would share with me lots of the old dates and things about the university and about the program in architecture, particularly.
And he told me the program was started in 1905.
It was called the Department of Drafting and Technology at that time.
The first graduates were in 1907.
There were two.
Preston Guerin, who's one of the university benefactors, Preston Guerin, Jr.
G-E-R-E-N.
That's correct.
Preston Guerin was, his grandfather was F.E.
Giesecke, and F.E.
Giesecke.
G-I-E-S-E-C-K-E.
That's going to be really close.
Really close.
He was the architect for which buildings?
the architect for the system building.
And I found out many years later, he's also the architect for Norwood Towers over in Austin.
But he was the system architect.
It wasn't a system, I don't guess, in those days.
But whatever it was, he was a campus architect also.
And he, Mr. Giesicki, was the first
head or whatever we called people when this program started as the Department of Drafting Technology.
Mr. Giesecki was the first head of it.
Anyway, he told me a lot of these kind of facts and stories.
And one day, someone had called me on the phone.
Mr. Langford was a gentleman, a distinguished mayor for 26 years and a gentle soul, and we thought just a brilliant man.
And somebody called me and actually wanted some facts.
I don't remember who it was, but I told them the facts as I remembered them, and I think I told them right.
And then I called Mr. Langford, and I said, Mr. Langford, so-and-so's just call me, and they want to know some things, and I just want to check with you one more time, that I'd be sure that I've told them right.
And Mr. Langford said,
God damn it, John.
I'm not going to be here for you to call over all the time.
You've got to remember these things.
And it was the first time I'd ever heard Mr. Langford curse, ever.
And I was blown away.
I just couldn't believe it that he would say these things to me.
Anyway, within five days of Mr. Langford's death, he was up at St.
Joseph's.
and my father came into town, and my father had met him when he brought me down here years before, and he knew who my department head was, so I asked him, I said, Mr. Langford's up at the hospital, and I would like to run up to see him, and my dad said he'd like to go too, so we went up to see Mr. Langford, and he's laying there on his death bed, as it would turn out, and he said, John, good to see you, and we stood there a minute, and a lot of silence went by, and he finally said, John,
What's your best recollection of the first time we met?
I thought, oh, don't put me through this.
Not today.
Come on.
And I said, Mr. Langford, my best recollection is that we met on my Uncle Fred's back porch before I came to school here.
There was this long silence.
I thought, oh, no.
And he finally says, that's my best recollection, too.
I said, thank you, God.
Thank you, God.
I got that one right.
Passed that test, anyway.
Now, what was he like as an instructor, as a teacher?
He was the first dose that my class had at reality, probably.
He taught structures.
And he wasn't an engineer.
In fact, his schooling would have been back in the day when engineering and architecture were basically the same.
And so he was our structures teacher.
And he was a good teacher.
And he taught his structures.
He drew his little beams and things on the chalkboard.
And he said, I've designed a beam, a little old beam, just like this over in such and such a building in Austin.
of one of the capital buildings, one of the major buildings over there.
And we were impressed, one, that he had done that, and two, that he called it a little bitty old beam.
And he was just our first real dose at Reality, and he was a great teacher.
But I was so fortunate that I took that structures course with Mr. Langford, the only one I took with him, in the MSC in the summertime, which was the only building on campus that was air-conditioned.
So it was really an enjoyable class, and we had a great time with Mr. Langford.
Did he seem to enjoy teaching, enjoy students?
Oh yeah, he enjoyed students, yes.
I was standing with Mr. Langford, standing by Mr. Langford in the MSC when I was early in my college career.
I just knew who he was.
I was confident he probably didn't remember who I was, but I was standing beside him when this older gentleman came up from behind him
tapped him on the shoulder, and Mr. Langford wheeled around and said, hey, Joe, good to see you.
And he, I thought, he can call that old man's name that quickly?
And it was Joe Denman from Temple Industries over in Dybal, Texas.
That's who it was.
And Joe was a graduate of this program.
A lot of people don't know that.
But his ability to call former students from the past
They're probably only, no, that's unfair to say.
But there are just three or four that can do that, and I'm one of them now.
I've made it a point to be able to do that.
Remember the names and call them when I see them.
Did Mr. Langford encourage, reckon his example, encourage you to do that?
Well, I might have done it anyway, but it was certainly on my mind.
What are some of your fondest memories here?
You wouldn't think this was a hard question.
This is a hard question.
Fondest memories here.
Well, first of all, I've got to probably say most of them are related to a student.
And by the way, I bet of all these phone calls that I've just returned laying up here, there's not one of them that's not a former student of mine.
One, I see one right there.
Anyway, the former students are the best thing.
And making some lifelong connections, following them with their career.
And after all these years, I've just found out why I have a few good, good boy professional friends.
And I have a number of female professional friends.
And I've always worried about that a little bit.
Just does that mean anything, you know?
What is going on here?
That's always been on my mind.
And the other day I was talking to one of our newer female faculty, an older person out here in the hallway, and she was telling me about this guy that had been to her office.
And she was asking me how I advise people.
And I said, I don't know.
The kids that come to my office very often, we talk about way more than just what class to take.
We talk about their personal situation, their life,
how their family, how them and their mother are getting along, you know, and how they're too many Christmas.
It's really unreal.
And she said, she was talking about this boy that had been to her office.
And I said, well, wait a minute.
There's been no boy that's ever talked to me about their life, their girlfriend, how they're getting along, you know, and things like that.
But girls do it all the time.
The girls must be more verbal.
She says, no, no, you don't get it.
The boys talk to me.
And I said, of course.
A boy to talk to a boy is kind of a sign of weakness if things are not all going, to admit that things are not going well for you.
Yes, that's going to be one of the beauties of the developing female population.
The boys will have a better place to talk and won't feel so intimidated telling it to their mother or some female than they would telling it to somebody that think that's a sign of weakness.
OK, so I now don't feel quite as bad with having so many girls come in here and tell me their life story.
Fun times, fun times.
Romnick had great parties.
that were always fun.
One of the problems with getting larger and being better and as sophisticated as we are trying and have become probably is that you lose a lot of the personal
We used to have faculty parties that were just wonderful.
I mean, we really enjoyed, and we enjoyed each other.
And you can't do that as well anymore.
It just doesn't exist quite the same way.
Partly because we don't develop it, but partly because you find yourself on different sides of the fence more often in competition with one another.
Not just faculty, but departments.
And so there's not as much collegiality, I think, as there used to be.
There's professional respect, I think, generally speaking.
Fun times has got to be the students.
And I love to teach.
I love my classes.
I love to go to school and I love to teach school and have a good time doing it.
I'm looking at these walls and so forth.
Proudest moments.
Things that I'm most proud of?
Well, I'm not a PhD.
I'm not a researcher.
And I realized shortly after I got here, and I first realized I wasn't going to be department head or something else for my whole life either.
So I knew I needed to teach something.
And I could teach architectural design because I
If you go out there and look at my outstanding class hanging over that water fountain over here, my classmates are distinguished professionals that have done some of the world's fine work and heading some of the biggest companies in the world.
But the person that won the design award in school was me.
Not Key Cobb, not Kirby Cahee, not Cecil Stewart, but me.
I want it.
So I could do that, but I didn't want to because I knew from my experience in practice, I can hire people cheaper than I want to be paid to do it better than I can possibly do it.
They're just better teachers at that than I am.
So I knew I needed to, I wanted to develop something and I wanted to be in the business area.
So I did do that, and I developed both courses that I'm teaching, one graduate, one undergraduate, for that purpose.
So I loved them, I developed them, and so forth.
But in order to keep, I realized very quickly that you can date yourself,
Very quickly.
It's not unlike what the publisher of papers and the researcher would be doing.
They're constantly keeping themselves on the forefront and submitting things for review and so forth, and they know they're on the cutting edge.
And the only way for me to know I was on the cutting edge was for me to stay involved with the practitioners.
And to know that I'm not giving out stale information, that's a death knell.
The minute the kids and they find they can determine it real quick that you're teaching stale stuff, was for me to be involved.
So that's what you see on most of these walls, involvement with the professional community, which I've enjoyed immensely.
And my first major thing that was just very special was
Well, I got the practice thing done in Texas.
That is to say since 1937 when they first did a law that regulated the practice of architecture, in fact it didn't regulate the practice of architecture, it regulated the use of the title architect.
It's what the state would call a title law instead of a practice law that said you can or cannot do this.
And for 50 years, the architects in the state tried to get that law changed to say, we need to regulate more than just the title, but who can do this and who can't.
Not just who can call themselves one, but who can do it.
And in 1989, I got that done single-handedly.
Not single-handedly.
Nothing's done single-handedly, but I was the chair.
I was the leader of the effort that got it done.
And it had been tried for a long time.
So I take great pride in that.
And nearly a whole row of those awards there are from people saying, thank you for doing that.
One of the principal reasons I was able to do that is because I was in academe.
I could work on it Monday, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.
And the persons that were presidents of the Texas Society that are practicing can't give it that kind of time.
But I did.
I could.
I worked on it all the time.
And I'm assuming you could, on that matter, you could be looked upon as being comparatively unbiased, unprejudiced.
Yeah.
I wasn't a practitioner.
Yes.
That's the one time, very few times that you can say that.
In fact, I was invited to stand for election to the presidency of the Texas Society of Architects on two previous occasions.
And I turned them down.
I told them I really don't believe in a full-time educator ought to be the leader
testifying over in Austin on behalf of practicing architects.
I think it ought to be a practitioner.
And the third time they asked, I said, okay, all right.
And we managed to get this done.
So you were president in?
88.
And the legislature met in 89.
And I carried the effort through the 89 period.
And then
The proudest things, probably, well, let's see, when I was elected to the College of Fellows of the American Institute of Architects in 91, I think it was.
I can't see the date on that thing.
When Governor Bush appointed me to chair the architecture state board, and I served as the chair for five years, the longest serving chair ever, because used to, prior to Ann Richards,
The chairs were elected by the board, and they elected a different one every year, usually.
So no one served more than two, and most only one.
But Ann Richards got the legislation passed that lets the GOV decide who's going to be the chairman of the state agencies.
And so the GOV appointed me as the chair when I was a freshman.
The first board meeting I ever went to, I was the chairman and stayed chairman for five years.
So that was kind of a proud moment.
It was a proud moment when the American Institute of Architects president
excited me from my activities singularly just three or four years ago.
I'm also, of course, proud of the Distinguished Teaching Award.
I was terribly proud to be in the first class of the
of the alumnus of the college to be recognized, so that I was recognized along with Ernest Langford, and Willie Pena, and a bunch of people whom I have great, great, great respect.
And then I won the Pitts Award, another very proud moment for me.
That's the highest award the Texas Society gives any member.
And let's see, there are just an awful lot of much older and much more distinguished people than me that haven't received that award.
Any sad moments?
Yeah.
Well, you don't want to know personal ones, do you?
No, no, no.
A&M sad moments.
Yeah, we lost to Oklahoma.
When we lost to Texas when they were ranked number one.
We didn't lose, we won that game too.
No, sad moments, sad moments.
Yeah, the death of my colleagues is a sad time, of course.
Trost and McGillivray have died in the last year.
That's not good.
Stasel's got cancer.
I've got two more questions for you then.
Three questions.
As you look back on all these years, what did you learn as an A&M student that has been significant to you as a professional?
Leadership, responsibility, honor, integrity.
Of course, I learned some of those at home, I think.
But there's something seriously to be said about the disciplinary boundaries and the, what do you call it, the recognizing whoever's sitting in the chair is the boss.
It doesn't matter that they're your brother or your younger brother or whatever, whoever's sitting in the chair is the boss.
And being a player in the game, and it's basically a game, but being a contributing player, I think the Corps of Cadets had a lot to do with that.
Because for people of my generation, as I said, when my father said, I think you ought to try architecture, I never gave it a second thought.
I did it.
So, but to have this sort of discipline at that particular moment in life I think was terribly important and gave, I think, one of the most important things that you have to do is to have confidence in yourself.
And one of the things that that helps you do is develop you to a position of having confidence in yourself.
And if you have confidence, you can probably do it.
And so that was part of my college experience, and I think it was terribly important.
It was also part of my Army experience, and I think that was terribly important.
And to understand that just because somebody salutes you, that they're saluting your position, not you, or it's not personal.
It's okay.
It's all right.
No, you're not a God figure.
You're just an ordinary guy.
You happen to be an officer in the Army.
Okay.
What has it meant to you to be an Aggie?
What has it meant being an Aggie?
It's a good camaraderie thing.
It's fun.
I find people with whom I associate
And I've sat on our national board for three years, so I've seen people from all over the country.
Most of those people at this point in time know where this place is, know what it is, and envy it.
They envy the camaraderie.
They envy the association of former students and the dedication people have back to the university.
And I know that.
That's been fun.
If you had the capability to make a very large gift, financial gift, to Texas A&M, and you could decide the use of the gift, for what purpose would your gift go?
I'd try to think of something inspirational like Romanek did.
He gave one to fund a traveling fellowship of some significant amount of money, two $7,000 a year traveling fellowships.
And the only stipulation is this, you must travel in the Pacific Rim.
Not Europe.
You ain't going over and see that old architecture anymore.
I want you to go to the Pacific Rim.
That's where the future is.
And so we now have two people a year going over and making the circle, generally speaking, in the Asian countries and Australia and places like that.
That's a forward-looking thing.
I think I'd try to find something like that.
And as a matter of fact, I have given, my wife and I have given a fairly substantial amount of money already.
And we have given it to this college.
And we've actually given the option to the college of how to use the money.
Whether it's scholarships or faculty awards or travel fellowships, it does not matter.
Whatever the department thinks, but one of those things.
Can't be used for partying, but one of those kind of things.
I said I was a leader on that foundation for 12 years.
that I gave the money to.
And it's given to the Texas Architecture Foundation, and it's stipulated directly to Texas A&M.
It goes no place to Texas A&M ever, ever, ever, unless that thing defaults, and then the money goes to Texas A&M.
But there's an endowment over there, and I get no credit for it at Texas A&M.
That's worrisome to me.
So I did give it to A&M.
It just didn't come directly to A&M.
A&M's going to get it every year forever.
And I wish there was some way to recognize that.
I stayed, when we started this big development campaign 10 years ago or whatever it was, I bugged our, I hired Colonel Ray.
He's our development officer for several years.
I hired him when I was up there.
And I bugged him until he began to put an asterisk like Roger Marris' thing, you know, put an asterisk beside him and say, this wasn't given to him, but it did come here and it comes here every year.
So if I had any more to give, I probably wouldn't give it to the Corps, although I have great respect for that institution.
But the only reason I wouldn't give it to the Corps is because that's where so many other people
I don't think they're going to have a great problem raising money.
I think the little colleges have a greater problem.
That's why I've looked inwardly in this regard, and I probably would again, if I do it again.
Last question.
What are your feelings about Texas A&M today?
It's still an awfully good place.
We still get awfully good students.
And I'm going to have to say a few things about the greatest dean of faculty this institution ever had, Haskell Monroe.
When Haskell said one of the greatest things about this place, and still does exist, is that you better be careful what you say in class because people are going to be taking notes.
And they're going to quote it back to you.
So you better tell them up front, this is a joke.
Don't write this down or something.
No, the kids come here with a purpose, even today, even yet.
I've got kids roaming around out here in the hallway with earrings every place imaginable and tattoos around.
and old baggy clothes, and look like they just came out of some slum someplace.
And then they're in class, and they're taking notes, and they're looking, and they're attentive, and they know what they're doing.
It's wonderful.
It's just wonderful.
So over 30 years or so, you get to watch a whole bunch of different generations change.
But they're all the same.
They really haven't changed.
I think secondary education is doing less of a good job today than they used to, which makes it harder for us.
And the way we've dealt with it is, generally speaking, we've dumbed down just a little bit.
When I teach, I'm giving quizzes over there to a section of 50 tomorrow, and I can't give that section written essay kind of questions because I can't read them all.
And I can't spend a whole lot of time, because if I read them, I can write a declarative sentence.
I can make the syntax right.
I can get the subject and verb agreement and things like that.
And I sort of expect them to be able to do that too.
And when I do give my graduate class essay questions, and I do do that because I feel like they deserve a little bit different and better, and I do read them with that kind of critical eye, I'm usually disappointed that they have
They have more trouble spelling than even I, and I'm not the world's greatest speller.
And they have to work at making a sentence, be a real sentence.
So that, what was the question?
How do you feel about it?
I was really meaning your affection.
Oh, do I still like the place?
How do you feel about it?
Yes, I still like the place.
I understand all the reasons, but we've gotten too complicated.
I'm not sure we can ever go back, but we've gotten too complicated, it's too hard, and we depend way too much on quantitative things.
Reducing people to a decimal point number is just not right, just hopelessly wrong.
And what worries me most about that
It worries me most right here in this college because we teach subjective stuff and then we come over here and want to put people in little number piles, but the university
has a similar problem.
And it seems to me like when you watch people at the department level and the dean's level, and I've been in those two, and then at the upper levels, and the salary goes up each time, that the salary is going up each time because they're responsible for more things.
And part of that responsibility ought to be making the hard calls, the judgments.
And we
And I've seen it happen.
It happens down in the courthouse, too.
You can't even get judges to make judgments anymore to make a hard call.
They will fight it, find any way they can get away from it, make some little old narrow thing.
And I think that disappoints me in our society, not just Texas A&M University, but our whole everything is that way.
And I think we're better than that.
I don't think that's our best hour.
But you still love the place.
Oh, yeah.
It's still done more for me than I've done for it, by a long shot.
Yeah, I still like the place.
Let's quit.
Nope.
You started safe.
And I will.
Continue to, even though I have lots of things I could complain about and think could be done better.
I still love it.